README.md, before:

# claude-inline.nvim

Minimal Claude chat for Neovim. Send prompts to Claude Code CLI with persistent conversation context in a sidebar.

## Features

- **Persistent Conversation**: Claude remembers context across messages (same process)
- **Sidebar Chat**: Conversation history in a dedicated split window
- **Floating Input**: Clean prompt input without leaving your code
- **Streaming Responses**: See Claude's response as it's generated
- **Zero Dependencies**: Pure Neovim Lua, no external plugins required

## Installation

### lazy.nvim

```lua
{
  "kylesnowschwartz/claude-inline.nvim",
  config = function()
    require("claude-inline").setup()
  end,
}
```

### Manual

Clone to your Neovim packages directory:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/kylesnowschwartz/claude-inline.nvim \
  ~/.local/share/nvim/site/pack/plugins/start/claude-inline.nvim
```

## Configuration

```lua
require("claude-inline").setup({
  keymaps = {
    send = '<leader>cs',      -- Send prompt
    toggle = '<leader>ct',    -- Toggle sidebar
    clear = '<leader>cx',     -- Clear conversation
  },
  ui = {
    sidebar = {
      position = 'right',     -- 'left' or 'right'
      width = 0.4,            -- 40% of editor width
    },
    input = {
      border = 'rounded',
      width = 60,
      height = 3,
    },
  },
})
```

## Usage

1. Press `<leader>cs` (or `:ClaudeInlineSend`) to open the prompt input
2. Type your question and press `Enter`
3. Response appears in the sidebar with streaming
4. Send follow-up questions - Claude remembers context
5. Press `<leader>cx` (or `:ClaudeInlineClear`) to start a new conversation

## Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `:ClaudeInlineSend` | Open input prompt |
| `:ClaudeInlineToggle` | Toggle sidebar visibility |
| `:ClaudeInlineClear` | Clear conversation and restart |

## How It Works

The plugin spawns a single Claude Code CLI process with `--input-format stream-json --output-format stream-json`. This keeps the conversation context in memory, so follow-up questions work naturally without re-sending history.

Messages are sent as NDJSON:
```json
{"type":"user","message":{"role":"user","content":[{"type":"text","text":"your prompt"}]}}
```

Claude responds with streaming chunks (`type: "assistant"`) followed by a final result (`type: "result"`).

## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat: replace line scanning with extmark-based message blocks
Replace O(n) line scanning to find message boundaries with O(1) extmark
lookups. Each message block now gets an extmark at its start line,
enabling instant position queries without buffer scanning.

Changes:
- Add MESSAGE_NS namespace for message block extmarks
- Track message_blocks array in UI state with {id, role} per block
- Replace find_last_claude_marker() with extmark lookups
- Add get_block_at_cursor() and get_all_blocks() for future features
- Add test infrastructure (justfile, tests/) to catch API errors early

The tests would have immediately caught the end_right_gravity bug that
required end_row/end_col - all 5 tests fail on first API call.

README.md, after:

# claude-inline.nvim

Minimal Claude chat for Neovim. Send prompts to Claude Code CLI with persistent conversation context in a sidebar.

## Features

- **Persistent Conversation**: Claude remembers context across messages (same process)
- **Sidebar Chat**: Conversation history in a dedicated split window
- **Floating Input**: Clean prompt input without leaving your code
- **Streaming Responses**: See Claude's response as it's generated
- **Zero Dependencies**: Pure Neovim Lua, no external plugins required

## Installation

### lazy.nvim

```lua
{
  "kylesnowschwartz/claude-inline.nvim",
  config = function()
    require("claude-inline").setup()
  end,
}
```

### Manual

Clone to your Neovim packages directory:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/kylesnowschwartz/claude-inline.nvim \
  ~/.local/share/nvim/site/pack/plugins/start/claude-inline.nvim
```

## Configuration

```lua
require("claude-inline").setup({
  keymaps = {
    send = '<leader>cs',      -- Send prompt
    toggle = '<leader>ct',    -- Toggle sidebar
    clear = '<leader>cx',     -- Clear conversation
  },
  ui = {
    sidebar = {
      position = 'right',     -- 'left' or 'right'
      width = 0.4,            -- 40% of editor width
    },
    input = {
      border = 'rounded',
      width = 60,
      height = 3,
    },
  },
})
```

## Usage

1. Press `<leader>cs` (or `:ClaudeInlineSend`) to open the prompt input
2. Type your question and press `Enter`
3. Response appears in the sidebar with streaming
4. Send follow-up questions - Claude remembers context
5. Press `<leader>cx` (or `:ClaudeInlineClear`) to start a new conversation

### Visual Selection

Select code in visual mode, then press `<leader>cs`. The floating input opens for your prompt, and the selected code is automatically included with file path and line numbers:

```
From main.lua:15-23:
local function example()
  -- your selected code
end

What does this function do?
```

This gives Claude the context it needs without you having to copy-paste or explain where the code lives.

## Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `:ClaudeInlineSend` | Open input prompt |
| `:ClaudeInlineToggle` | Toggle sidebar visibility |
| `:ClaudeInlineClear` | Clear conversation and restart |

## How It Works

The plugin spawns a single Claude Code CLI process with `--input-format stream-json --output-format stream-json`. This keeps the conversation context in memory, so follow-up questions work naturally without re-sending history.

Messages are sent as NDJSON:
```json
{"type":"user","message":{"role":"user","content":[{"type":"text","text":"your prompt"}]}}
```

Claude responds with streaming chunks (`type: "assistant"`) followed by a final result (`type: "result"`).

## License

MIT
